>> Jon Kuperman: So,
how is the third exercise?
I heard some productive sounding chatter,
and
some Alex the screen reader voice
reading out over some people.
So that's awesome.
So yeah,
I guess we'll go over it real quick.
This one when you get into the screen
reader the stuff is kind of fun but
there's also like a lot
that could be done.
So I think we're just gonna take
the first pass over making it usable.
But there are a lot things, and we kinda
talked about some really good points
before we broke for
break about described by.
And all the different ways you can use
labels to make forms really awesome.
But I think for
now we're just gonna make it usable.
>> Digital Voice: Reload this page,
screen reader's web content.
You're currently on web content,
to enter the web area press
Ctrl+Option+Shift+down arrow.
>> Jon Kuperman: Cool so
this is a voice over.
And so basically there's a couple
ways you can get started.
One of the easy ways is just using
the website like you regularly would.
So I can just hit Tab to see
what I can interact with.
>> Digital Voice: Visited
link back list one item.
>> Jon Kuperman: So
I see a back button and
then we get into the really
useless stuff right.
Which is like, even though this form
looks great with these paragraph tags and
things like that.
When you actually are using the screen
reader, it literally gives you no.
It just says edit text, blank.
>> Digital Voice: Edit text blank.
You are currently on edit text blank.
>> Jon Kuperman: And so you can just kinda
tell right away, if you can't see then
this form is completely,
you can't figure this form out.
I mean the only real option you'd have
it you could send it into a mode where
it reads everything.
And then you can try
to remember the order.
And be like okay, there were four inputs
that I heard and they were name, email.
You know what I mean?
Things like that.
But you're really putting a lot of
pain on your user at that point.
And then similarly with the.
>> Digital Voice: Edit text.
Daily menu item.
>> Jon Kuperman: WIth [LAUGH]
>> Digital Voice: Pop up button
>> Jon Kuperman: With the select,
since it doesn't have a label it
doesn't really tell you what it is.
I mean, you have no context.
Daily what?
I mean, it says it's on select and
you're on daily.
I think you can just pretty easily
imagine the frustration of trying to
fill this out.
And especially like I mean, you know,
I've just been doing
the accessibility stuff for a while.
And I just like hear these stories about.
You know what I mean stuff that people
are trying to like make a purchase or
trying to like sign up for
a service or something like that.
And like, you know not having
that stuff is like, it's hard for
me to imagine going online to sign up for
Netflix or something and
it being literally impossible for
me to get.
You know it's that frustration,
is like is a lot.
So we can fix a lot of
these pretty simply.
We go ahead and
turn voice over off for now.
So basically if we go into the code and we
go into the screen reader index dot html.
I'm gonna go ahead and hide this.
The first big thing that I would do on my
paths is I would just turn these paragraph
tags into labels for
their appropriate form control.
So you can just give
each label like an ID.
And then you can turn these
paragraphs into like label four,
whatever that idea is.
And so even if we just do this one
example, label for email, email address.
And then if we went back over here and
turn the screen reader on again.
>> Digital Voice: Content visited
email address, edit text.
>> Jon Kuperman: It's just so
much better, right?
It's telling you that it's
an email address, edit some text.
So we can go ahead and
we could do that for all of them.
So we can go ahead id = name.
And this is a pretty quick pass
through all this stuff label for
name, something like that, cool.
And then how often would
you like to receive email.
This is like probably one of the big
ones because it was just not,
not telling you what it was frequency I
think I called it, or something like that.
Label for frequency.
Cool.
So we can do some stuff like this and
then basically now if we go
back to it with it unmuted.
>> Digital Voice: You
have reloaded this page.
Screen visited.
Link, email address.
Edit first and last name, edit text,
daily, menu item, edit text daily.
>> Jon Kuperman: Something's wrong here,
hold on.
>> Digital Voice: You are currently
on a pop up button, inside muting.
>> Jon Kuperman: All right I might have
to, I'll look into that one offline.
But basically we're just gonna do is
I'm not sure what's going on with it.
But we'll add ID's to these form elements
and then we'll add labels for them.
I've got something going wrong here but
basically we'll do that.
The other thing that you'll need,
this is pretty contrived.
But it says what is in the above pictures.
So there's a couple different
things we could do here.
The first thing that we wanna
do is like we mentioned,
we'll go up to that image and
we'll just add some alt text to it.
That you could just say like cats,
or for cats, or something like that.
So at least when you're reading
the whole document you'll get there.
There's some other cools
stuff that you could do.
Again, getting kind of subjective
you could use some of that ARIA,
describe by or label by stuff.
To like kinda connect to that
security question with the image.
So you could say like
you get the image ID.
You can could say
the described by that thing.
And you can start making these.
I mean, that really up to you like just
trying to visualize a workflow and
just kind of sticking labels and
descriptions on stuff.
But that might be a cool way to
go through it as like to be like,
what's the security image above image
of cats or something like that.
However you'd like to do it.
You know, might be nice.
I wanted to do a little bit more on
security because one of the big.
I'm trying to like keep like
a little bit of a running
list of like the big accessibility
problems that we see.
So like one of the big ones is like,
we did the divs with the class of button,
that's a very common one that you see.
Another one is alt text for images,
another common one you see.
A third one which is really
important is CAPTCHA's are often
a big stopping point for
people with a number of disabilities.
The big thing behind CAPTCHA's they just
really don't do anything good for you.
They don't really prevent
all that much spam.
They're really easy to hack and
they often don't,
even if they offer some
kind of audio replacement.
It's often not accurate enough.
Often the numbers you
need to enter won't be.
Or oftentimes they'll put distortion
in the background of the audio as well.
There big blocking points.
So if you have a website and
it has some kind of CAPTCHA on it,
I think it would just be worth
considering, like can you remove it.
Can you find another way of preventing
spam without preventing legitimate users.
So this is like a very contrived,
this isn't a real CAPTCHA.
But I did want to make a point,
a special point for
CAPTCHAs because I think a lot
of people struggle with them.
>> Speaker 3: I have
a question before you move on.
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: I just going
back to the screen reader,
because I tried to just turn
my screen down to use it.
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: So when you go to the select
thing is there a way to get it to read you
all the selections?
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah, so-
>> Speaker 3: The only way,
I figured it was like you
just hit down arrow and
then when you select it tells you what it
was but it wasn't like it gave you the.
>> Speaker 4: It does tell you
how many options there are?
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah so I think by
default the select will tell you that its
a drop down and
how many options there are in it.
As far as reading all of them.
I'm trying to think,
Jack do you have a suggestion on that?
So with selects they'll tell you how many
items are going to be inside the select.
Is there a way to get, I mean I can
think of a way with like labeling and
putting all the options int he label for
it.
Like this is a drop down with these
choices but that's like duplication.
Is there a way to read you all of
the options so you don't have to.
>> Jack: Not that I can recall-
>> Jon Kuperman: So
one thing I've seen down before
with any templating languages
is you'll just use the same list of, the
list that you populate those select with.
You'll also populate the label with or
a described by.
So that will get you there even though
it is a little bit of duplication.
I think that would probably
be the best thing to do.
>> Speaker 4: Well I mean
if you're using code to-
>> Jon Kuperman: Well, right, yeah.
>> Speaker 4: Discription.
>> Jon Kuperman: But if you're just using
HTML then it would just be like a direct
copy and paste, but
that would be a nice thing for users.
So maybe an ARIA described by, and
then you'd have all of them
in there something like that.
Something like that.
>> Speaker 3: And the other thing is
when you type in like to fill itself.
It's trying to read it
to you as you type but
is there a way to get it to just like say,
I wanna read what I typed.
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah, so
the next example that we're gonna do
is covering a little bit of that stuff.
So there's this concept of
like ARIA Live Regions.
And some different things which
is like how the screen reader
can react to things changing.
So there's some cool stuff
you can do in there,
and we have an example that's pretty
similar to that for our next one.
But yeah, it's like, this is where
I try to it's kind of endless.
Just all the cool stuff you can do.
So yeah, that is definitely a big thing.
When should the screen, now that you have
a screen-reader communicating with a user,
when should it update them?
Every character that they type or
only when a time out has exceeded,
different things like that.
And it gets back into, somebody had
a great question about form validation.
Which is another kind of big topic where
you cover like when does it validate.
And how often does it announce to the user
if something's invalid or if it's,
you know what I mean you
kinda get into this.
So yeah, when we do our live
regions in the next there's funny,
their modes are like assertive and polite.
So you can control different things like,
should you wait
until the screen loader is done saying
its current thing and then let you know?
Or should it kind of take precedence and
interrupt that something's changed?
>> Jack: I think the best way you can
make decisions around that, to be honest,
is just implement something and
turn it on and try it.
Because you're gonna hear very quickly
if it's just a bunch of garbage or not.
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah, and
I think the more stuff you have
going on the worse it can get.
But yeah, I think the best thing
to do with all these nice,
free screen readers is just have
someone in QA, or the developer.
Or somebody just try filling out that
form or living on your app for a minute.
And see if it's like everybody yelling or
if it's just a pretty
easy to follow thing.
>> Speaker 6: Beyond all caps or not, is
there a way to suggest pronunciations for
like weird words or-
>> Jon Kuperman: I don't know,
that's a really good question.
>> Speaker 6: Another thing I-
>> Jon Kuperman: Made up words, right?
>> Speaker 6: Right.
>> Jon Kuperman: How would you pronounce
your company name or something if it was.
>> Speaker 6: I think something as
simple as times I've been working with
a lot lately,
if you all caps the AM PM that helps.
But it seems of read out
individual digits sometimes,
which to me is not very user friendly.
>> Jon Kuperman: So
some of that stuff you could do,
since the labels
are essentially kind of strings.
I mean you could do some of that with
a JavaScript library could format it.
And then you could take that timestamp,
and you could pass it through moment.js or
whatever.
And you can control how you read aloud,
so you can say like.
February 22nd 1 a you know right,
you can change it into words, basically.
As far as pronunciation,
it's a really good question.
I don't know of anything.
>> Speaker 7: So
I mean there's kind of two camps.
Some folks have tried to for example,
if it's going to be something,
that would only specifically be read
by a screen reader provide a phonetic.
>> Jon Kuperman: Right.
>> Speaker 7: Spelling, but feedback that
we've also gotten from the disabilities
community is most people that
have been using screen readers
are used to the mispronunciation so
they're like don't bother.
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah, I've seen the
phonetic thing I think before where you
know you'd have a label that was like,
kind of reminds of back in the days.
Where that Mac to speech program, but
you'd try to get it to say your words so
you'd like.
But yeah, I do agree that I think for
company names and things like that,
I think a lot of people are if it says
Twitter they know what it's going for.
But that's a really good question.
There's also, I wonder, so they tie into
the voices that your operating system has.
And I actually am now
wondering a little bit if,
cuz some of the voices are accented.
You can get British voices or
I'm wondering a little bit if there's
some cool stuff you can do in there.
But yeah,
I haven't really done anything like that.
But it's a really good question.
>> Speaker 7: I think the one thing
Like trying to do phonetic stuff,
is that,
becomes really hard to maintain over time.
That's another reason to
just not go down that road.
>> Speaker 6: Trust that
technology that will better.
[LAUGH]
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah, I mean,
I think that's a really good call.
I think that I don't know,
I think that would be really cool.
I thing it would be
really cool to mess with.
But I do think that for those that use
templating languages it's always nice if
you can make your labels
out of the same variables.
That your place holder or your,
you know what I mean those kind of things.
Which that would get a lot more complex
if you had a phonetic spelling as well.
That's a really good question.
Cool, so yeah, basic idea there is just.
And I really think,
I just can't say enough for
actually turning on a screen reader and
running through your site.
I mean, I heard a few people like my
goodness I can't hear what's going on.
And just thinking about you
make this really gorgeous,
nice thing that is a joy to use.
And then you take a significant chunk of
the population and you don't make it so
it works for them.
It's just kind of a weird
reality that we live in.
So I think that's really important,
really cool.
And there are really, if you get some
bandwidth to play with stuff you can
really make the experience great.
Like I was talking about before with your
security question could like tie itself to
the actual picture, with the described
by so it reads it right after.
You can do some like
really nice things there.
But yeah I can't just
really say enough for
actually like get on the screen reader.
Put your headphones on and
like try to use your website, cool.